Top 100+ Python Interview Questions You Must Prepare In 2023
We have compiled a list of top Python interview questions which are classified into 7 sections, namely:
Basic Interview Questions
OOPS Interview Questions
Basic Python Programs
Python Libraries Interview Questions
Web Scraping Interview Questions
Data Analysis Interview Questions
Multiple Choice Questions (MCQ)
                                                              Basic Python Interview Questions for Freshers

Q1. What is the difference between list and tuples in Python?
LIST: Lists are mutable i.e they can be edited.
      Lists are slower than tuples.
      Syntax: list_1 = [10, ‘Chelsea’, 20]
TUPLES: Tuples are immutable (tuples are lists which can’t be edited).
	      Tuples are faster than list.
        Syntax: tup_1 = (10, ‘Chelsea’ , 20)

Q2. What are the key features of Python?
Python is an interpreted language. That means that, unlike languages like C and its variants, Python does not need to be compiled before it is run. Other interpreted languages include PHP and Ruby.
Python is dynamically typed, this means that you don’t need to state the types of variables when you declare them or anything like that. You can do things like x=111 and then x="I'm a string" without error
Python is well suited to object orientated programming in that it allows the definition of classes along with composition and inheritance. Python does not have access specifiers (like C++’s public, private).
In Python, functions are first-class objects. This means that they can be assigned to variables, returned from other functions and passed into functions. Classes are also first class objects
Writing Python code is quick but running it is often slower than compiled languages. Fortunately，Python allows the inclusion of C-based extensions so bottlenecks can be optimized away and often are. The numpy package is a good example of this, it’s really quite quick because a lot of the number-crunching it does isn’t actually done by Python
Python finds use in many spheres – web applications, automation, scientific modeling, big data applications and many more. It’s also often used as “glue” code to get other languages and components to play nice. Learn more about Big Data and its applications from the Data Engineering Training Course.
